# Lernings from front matter

1. Quotations
2. Names of trees and plants with scientific and vernacular equivalents
3. Prakriti + pratyaya
4. Philological comparisions.
5. Useful information for University students. See {#apsaras, asura, veda, maMqala, mAnasa, haMsa#}.
6. Nyāyas (maxims) collected under headword Nyāya.
7. Verbs formed by prefixing prepositions to roots are arranged in the alphabetical order of the prepositions so affixed; {%<ab>e. g.</ab>%} {#prasTA#} or {#saMsTA#} must be looked for not under {#sTA#}, but in its own alphabetical order, and at the head of its own group of derivatives. 
8. Anusvāra instead of nasals e.g. aMga instead of aNga.
9. <P>1. Words and their derivatives are arranged in the following order: first the {%radical%} or primitive word in large black type in all its different parts of speech; and then the several derivatives in smaller type. In some cases these derivatives are given in their own alphabetical order for the sake of clearness.
10. <P>2. The different parts of speech of a word are indicated by large black dashes, after which the nominative singular of the part of speech is usually given, or the letters {%m., f., n%}. or {%ind%}. are put after the dash, the leading word being given only once. Where a word is used as an adjective and also as a substantive, the senses of the adjective are invariably given first; {%e. g%}. {#vIra, sADu, sat#}. The same is done in the case of compounds, but within brackets.
11. <P>3. Where two words, though identical in form, differ entirely in meaning, they are generally repeated as separate words; {%e. g%}. {#hA, hi#}. In a few cases they have been grouped together.
12. <P>4. Words which are used as adverbs, but derived by case-inflections from a noun or adjective, are given under the noun or adjective, {%e. g%}. {#uttareRa#} under {#uttara#}. In some cases they are given within brackets before the compounds, if any.
13. <P>5. The several meanings of a word, where they can be sufficiently distinguished from one another, are given separately and marked by black Arabic figures. Mere {%shades%} of meaning are not considered as separate senses, but in such cases several synonyms are given under the same meaning, from which the reader will have to make his choice. Where the shades of meaning are sufficiently broad, they are numbered as separate meanings.
14. <P>6. The meanings of words are arranged in the order of their importance and frequency of use. It has not, of course, been possible to do so in {%every%} case, ut the system has been generally followed.
15. <P>7. ({%a%}) Compounds are grouped under the first word in the compounds, in the alphabetical order of their {%second%} members, the black dash before them denoting that first word; {%e, g%}. {#--hotra#} under {#agni#} means {#agnihotra, --aDikArin#} under {#uttara#} means {#uttarADikArin#}.
16. <P>{%N. B%}. In giving compounds, the changes, which the final letters undergo, {%e. g%}. the dropping, assimilation of letters &c. are assumed; {%e. g%}. {#--apara#} under {#pUrva#} stands for {#pUrvApara, --gatiH#} under {#aDas#}, for {#aDogatiH#} &c. In some cases the compound words, where not easily intelligible, are given in full within brackets; see {#Danus, punas#}, {#vAc#}. &c.
17. <P>({%b%}) Where a compound itself is used as the first member of other compounds, these letter are given immediately after, their second member being preceded by °which represents the first compound; {%e. g%}. {#°iMdra#}, {#°rAja#} &c. given under {#dvi#} stand not for {#dvIMdra#} or {#dvirAja#}, but for {#dvijeMdra#} or {#dvijarAja#}.
18. <P>({%c%}) All {%aluk%} compounds ({%e. g%}. {#Atmanepada, kuSeSaya, parasmEpada, manasija, dAsyAH putraH, hfdispfS#} &c.) are given separately in their proper places, but under the radical word.
19. <P>8. All words formed by Kṛt or Taddhita affixes are given separately; thus {#kUlaMkaza, BayaMkara, annamaya#}, {#prAtastana, himavat#} &c. will be found not as compounds under {#kUla, Baya#} &c. but as separate words. 
20. <P>9. ({%a%}). In the case of substantives the nominative singular, wherever it may at once denote the gender, is given throughout, the {%visarga%}, unless followed by {%f.%}, indicating masculine gender, and the {%anusvāra%} neuter gender. Where the nominative singular is not indicative of the gender, it is specified as {%m. f%}. or {%n%}. as the case may be. All substantives ending in consonants have their genders specified as {%m. f%}. or {%n%}.
21. <P>({%b%}) The feminine forms of nouns are usually given as separate leading words, but in some cases, especially in the first five or six hundred pages, they are given under the leading word after the masculine gender. But where the fem. base enters into compounds, it is invariably given separately; {%e. g%}. {#ajA#}.
22. <P>10. In the case of adjectives the simple base only is given. The feminine of the majority of adjectives in {#a#} ends in {#A#}, and adjectives ending in {#i#} or {#u#} have generally the same base for all genders. In all such cases the simple base is given, the feminine being formed according to similar substantive bases. All irregular feminines are, however, denoted within brackets. Adjectives ending in {#t, n#}, or {#s#}, form their feminines regularly in {#tI, nI#}, or {#sI#}; where irregular, they are denoted within brackets.
23. <P>11. ({%a%}). In the case of verbs, the Arabic figure before P., A. and U. denotes the conjugation to which the root belongs; P. denoting Parasmaipada, A. Ātmanepada, and U. Ubhayapada (P. and A.). Den. stands for Denominative, and here the 3rd pers. sing. present tense is given throughout.
24. <P>({%b%}). Under each root the 3rd person singular present tense and of the Perfect, Aorist, two Futures and Infinitive in the case of important roots, and the past passive participle wherever noteworthy, are given throughout. The forms of the {%Passive, Causal%} and {%Desiderative%}, wherever noteworthy, are given after them, or after the senses of the primitive base, where there is any peculiarity in their senses.
25. <P>({%c%}). Verbs formed by prefixing prepositions to roots are given separately in their own alphabetical order, except in cases where there are no derivatives from such verbs.
26. <P>({%d%}). Roots sometimes change their form or {%pada%} (voice) or both, when used in particular senses, or when preceded by particular prepositions. Such changes are denoted within brackets.
27. <P>({%e%}). When a root belongs to different conjugations with different meanings, Roman figures are used to mark this difference, (cf. {#as, gup, hA#} &c.), the root being repeated only once.
28. <P>12. ({%a%}). All possible derivatives from a word are not always given when they may be easily supplied, more especially in the case of potential passive participles (formed by {#tavya, anIya#} and {#ya#}), present participles, and abstract nouns from adjectives (formed by adding {#tA, tva#} or {#ya#}). Where there is any peculiarity either in the formation or meaning of these derivatives, they are given. But in many cases the student will have to supply the forms according to the general rules given in Grammar.
29. <P>({%b%}). Similarly all the equivalents given under the radical word are not always repeated under the derivatives; they may, if necessary, be ascertained by a reference to the radical word.
30. <P>13. Mythological allusions are explained in {%small%} type in the body of the work between rectangular brackets []. Here long vowels like ā, ī, ū, and letters of the lingual class, as also {#f#} and {#Sa#} are, for the convenience of the press, denoted by corresponding {%italic%} letters; {%e. g%}. Pāṇḍava and Kṛpī stand for {#pAMqava#} and {#kfpI#}.
31. <P>14. Metres and information about literary and geographical names are given in the Appendices at the end. 


# Appendices

1. Apendix 1 - Prosody
2. Appendix 2 - Work and date of important works

